feat(docs): CDC blog post (#1244)
questdb/questdb.io: blog/2023-01-03-change-data-capture-with-questdb-and-debezium.mdx

    INSERT INTO stock (symbol, price, last_update) VALUES ('AMZN', 1000.0, now()) ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING;
    INSERT INTO stock (symbol, price, last_update) VALUES ('TSLA', 500.0, now()) ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING;
    INSERT INTO stock (symbol, price, last_update) VALUES ('NFLX', 500.0, now()) ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING;
    INSERT INTO stock (symbol, price, last_update) VALUES ('TWTR', 50.0, now()) ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING;
    INSERT INTO stock (symbol, price, last_update) VALUES ('SNAP', 10.0, now()) ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING;
    ```
    The `ON CONFLICT DO NOTHING` clause is used to avoid duplicate entries in the table when the App is restarted.
2. [Java code](https://github.com/questdb/kafka-questdb-connector/blob/main/kafka-questdb-connector-samples/stocks/src/main/java/io/questdb/kafka/samples/StockService.java) to update prices and timestamps with a random value.
    The updates are not perfectly random, the application uses a very simple algorithm to generate updates which very roughly resembles stock price movements.
    In a real-life scenario, the application would fetch the price from some external source.

> This is packaged into a minimal Dockerfile,

Author: What is "This"?

Reviewer: It follows right after this sentence:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/158619/210372706-727ca9b4-1821-4903-90b7-7c37cfa7439a.png)

Do you think it's unclear?

Author: Not as clear as it could be...because something is packaged into a dockerfile, and it cannot be the same thing we introduce? Looking at the context, I think we mean No. 2 of the list -- Java code?

Author: I did not express myself well. The line is following a numbered list, so naturally I would ask if "This" means No. 2 - Java code.

Author: ```suggestion
The producer is packaged into a minimal Dockerfile,
```

[`Dockerfile-App`](https://github.com/questdb/kafka-questdb-connector/blob/main/kafka-questdb-connector-samples/stocks/Dockerfile-App),
and linked to PostgreSQL:

```rust title="Dockerfile-App"
FROM maven:3.8-jdk-11-slim AS builder
COPY ./pom.xml /opt/stocks/pom.xml
COPY ./src ./opt/stocks/src
WORKDIR /opt/stocks
RUN mvn clean install -DskipTest
FROM azul/zulu-openjdk:11-latest
COPY --from=builder /opt/stocks/target/kafka-samples-stocks-*.jar /stocks.jar
CMD ["java", "-jar", "/stocks.jar"]
```

> ### Kafka Connect, Debezium and QuestDB Kafka Connector

Author: ```suggestion
### Kafka Connect, Debezium, and QuestDB Kafka Connector
```

> Before we dive into the Kafka Connect, Debezium and the QuestDB Kafka connector configurations, let's take a look at the relation

Author: ```suggestion
Before we dive into the Kafka Connect, Debezium, and the QuestDB Kafka connector configurations, let's take a look at their relation
```

> between Kafka Connect, Debezium and QuestDB Kafka connector.

Author: ```suggestion
with each other.
```

Kafka Connect is a framework for building connectors to move data between Kafka and other systems. It supports 2 classes of connectors:
1. Source connectors - read data from a source system and write it to Kafka
2. Sink connectors - read data from Kafka and write it to a sink system

Debezium is a Source connector for Kafka Connect that can monitor and capture the row-level changes in the databases.

> What does it mean? Whenever a row is inserted, updated or deleted in a database, Debezium will capture the change and write it as an event to Kafka.

Author: ```suggestion
What does it mean? Whenever a row is inserted, updated, or deleted in a database, Debezium will capture the change and write it as an event to Kafka.
```

On a technical level, Debezium is a Kafka Connect connector running inside the Kafka Connect framework.

> This is reflected in the Debezium container image: It packages the Kafka Connect with Debezium connectors pre-installed.

Author: Here, "the Debezium contain image" is unclear to me. Is it the image built by [`Dockerfile-Connect`](https://github.com/questdb/kafka-questdb-connector/blob/main/kafka-questdb-connector-samples/stocks/Dockerfile-Connect)? Maybe we could refer to `Dockerfile-Connect`?

QuestDB Kafka connector is also a Kafka Connect connector. It's a Sink connector that reads data from Kafka and writes it to QuestDB.

> We add the QuestDB Kafka connector to the Debezium container image, and we get a Kafka Connect image that has both Debezium and QuestDB Kafka connector installed!

Author: Again, "the Debezium container image" can be confusing; could we say the `Dockerfile-Connect` image?

Reviewer: The problem is that "Dockerfile-Connect" is just a file name. It's not a name of the image. It's a recipe. 
It does exactly what the sentence says: It layers the QuestDB Kafka connector on top of the existing Debezium container image.

This is the Dockerfile we use to build the image:
[`Dockerfile-Connect`](https://github.com/questdb/kafka-questdb-connector/blob/main/kafka-questdb-connector-samples/stocks/Dockerfile-Connect)
```rust title="Dockerfile-Connect"
FROM ubuntu:latest AS builder
WORKDIR /opt
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl wget unzip jq
RUN curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/questdb/kafka-questdb-connector/releases/latest | jq -r '.assets[]|select(.content_type == "application/zip")|.browser_download_url'|wget -qi -
RUN unzip kafka-questdb-connector-*-bin.zip

FROM debezium/connect:1.9.6.Final
COPY --from=builder /opt/kafka-questdb-connector/*.jar /kafka/connect/questdb-connector/
```
The Dockerfile downloads the latest release of the QuestDB Kafka connector, unzip it copies it to the Debezium container image.
The resulting image has both Debezium and QuestDB Kafka connector installed.

If you are still struggling to grasp all this complexity then this picture should make it clearer:

> TBD

Author: Is this for the diagram? Currently an overview diagram is in L63: I thought we are updating that one?

Reviewer: yes. as discussed over slack.

```

The request body contains the configuration for the Debezium connector, let's break it down:
```json title="A more readable version of the CURL command"
{
  "name": "debezium_source",
  "config": {
    "tasks.max": 1,
    "database.hostname": "postgres",
    "database.port": 5432,
    "database.user": "postgres",
    "database.password": "postgres",
    "connector.class": "io.debezium.connector.postgresql.PostgresConnector",
    "database.dbname": "postgres",
    "database.server.name": "dbserver1"
  }
}
```

It listens to changes on the PostgreSQL database and publishes to Kafka with the above
configuration. The topic name defaults to `<server-name>.<schema>.<table>.` In
our example, it is `dbserver1.public.stock`.
Why? Because the database server name is `dbserver1`, the schema is `public` and the only table we have is `stock`.

So after we send the request, Debezium will start listening to changes in the `stock` table and publish them to the `dbserver1.public.stock` topic.

### QuestDB Kafka Connector

> At this point we have a PostgreSQL table `stock` being populated with random stock prices and a Kafka topic `dbserver1.public.stock` that contains the changes.

Author: ```suggestion
At this point, we have a PostgreSQL table `stock` being populated with random stock prices and a Kafka topic `dbserver1.public.stock` that contains the changes.
```

In short, for every change in the PostgreSQL table, the Debezium emits a JSON message to a Kafka topic such as the following:

```json title="Example of a JSON message emitted by Debezium"
{
    "schema": "This JSON key contains Debezium message schema. It's not very relevant for this sample. Omitted for brevity.",
    "payload": {
      "before": null,
      "after": {
        "id": 8,
        "symbol": "NFLX",
        "price": 1544.3357414199545,
        "last_update": 1666172978269856
        }
      },
    "source": {
        "version": "1.9.6.Final",
        "connector": "postgresql",
        "name": "dbserver1",
        "ts_ms": 1666172978272,
        "snapshot": "false",
        "db": "postgres",
        "sequence": "[\"87397208\",\"87397208\"]",
        "schema": "public",
        "table": "stock",
        "txId": 402087,
        "lsn": 87397208,
        "xmin": null
    },
    "op": "u",
    "ts_ms": 1666172978637,
    "transaction": null
}
```
Don't get scared if you feel overwhelmed by the sheer size of this message. Most of the fields are metadata, and they are not relevant for this sample.

> See [Debezium documentation](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/1.9/connectors/postgresql.html#postgresql-events) you if you are interested in details.

Author: ```suggestion
See [Debezium documentation](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/1.9/connectors/postgresql.html#postgresql-events), for more details.
```

> The important realization is this: We cannot use the whole JSON message as it is and push it to QuestDB. We do not want all the metadata in QuestDB.

Author: ```suggestion
The important point is that we cannot push the whole JSON message to QuestDB and we do not want all the metadata in QuestDB.
```
